---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: The Road Ahead
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-08-30
labels:
  - JavaScript
  - Learning
---

When I declared myself a computer science major, I had no prior experience. In fact, I planned to be a business major! 
It wasn't until the end of my junior year that I decided to take a different pathway. With no prior experience with coding,
you could only imagine how intimidated I was when I walked into my first ICS class at the University of Hawaii. At the time, 
the language we were taught was Java. The syntax of coding was something I had never encountered before, and it took me a while
to finally get the hang of it. Although it was stressful, I found it a fun challenge. Fast forward to the fall semester of my sophomore year; I had some experience in coding now and felt confident 
I had gotten the hang of things. Then I found out i'd be learning a new coding language. 

Almost immediately, flash backs of my freshman semester hit me and I was worried that once again, I had a lot of learning to 
do. However, instead of wallowing in self-doubt, I decided to face the challenge head on. Thankfully, my previous experience 
with Java helped me understand the logic behind coding, and the syntax did not differ by much. Overall, I find Javascript as a
good programming language. I find that this language is not as specific as Java is in terms of labeling variable types or
declaring data types, such as arrays. I find that I can type code a bit faster because of this.

Another new experience I encountered this semester was Athletic software engineering. In my first year of college, 
I was given a long period of time to work on a code. This semester however, puts me in a race against the clock. Although very 
stressful, I enjoy how it tests and challenges me to be a faster thinker and typer. It also tests my capabilities and 
allows me to reflect on which skills I should improve on. By the end of the semester, I hope that this style of learning 
helps me become a more efficient coder. 
